(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

(0:00 - 1:02)
Hello, hello, good day, good afternoon, good morning, good evening, wherever you are. Hello, hello. Welcome at this training about transforming ideas into action with CoPilot Chat. 

I'm really happy that you are here. I'm really happy that you want to take some time away from your busy calendar and stay with me for one hour, one hour and a half. That's what we need to dive into this CoPilot Chat session. 

I see a lot of people here. Thank you very much for joining. Thank you very much for taking the time. 

You see that we are in a normal Teams meeting, so that means that I have put on transcriptions. You can change the language. You can show live captions. 

What you see on my slide are the steps that you can follow if you want to change your language. You can also continue and set the translation, select the language to your preferred language, if you will. Please do so.

(1:02 - 4:01)
You're very welcome to do that if you are speaking a different language and you want me as a translator, but then in text, of course. Again, really happy that you are here. We have a lot of people, a lot of people in this call. 

That's very nice, but we need to agree on a couple of things. Now, first of all, you can unmute yourself. You can put on your camera, and that's something that I really prefer. 

Just to see a couple of faces nodding or smiling to me, that's better for my brain if I'm going to see that. Thank you for doing that. I really appreciate it. 

On the other hand, I want you to ask, or at least I'm asking you to stay on mute during this training. I have a colleague that is going to answer all of your questions that you have. If you have any question around the topics that we are going to discuss today, anything that comes to mind, please ask your question in the chat. 

We will have some time at the end of this training to do a quick Q&A that you can ask me questions directly, but in this call, Horan will provide you each and one of the answers that you have. For your questions, there are no stupid questions today. If you want to know something that you are struggling with a long time by using Copilot, just ask. 

Don't hesitate. Now is the time. Let's also agree on the use of our React button. 

Inside of Teams, you will see that you have the React button. You also have the Raise button, but that's just to give me a high five. If you are going to use the React button, you will see that we have a thumbs up. 

Each time I'm going to ask you a question and the answer is yes, let's agree that you're going to do a thumbs up. If your answer is going to be no, let's do that surprise icon, shall we? If we agree on that, just for this meeting, you don't have to use it within your customer environment. Just for this meeting, let's agree on that, so we have good guardrails for this training. 

By the way, about this training, what are we going to go through? We have a training tailored for all of you, business users, any type of user is welcome. Today, we are going to get started with using M365 Copilot Chat. If you are already using M365 Copilot Chat, I will show you what you can do more to be even productive as what you are as of today. 

My name is Karel De Winter. I'm based in Belgium. I'm here together with my colleague, Horan. 

Horan is going to ask and answer all your questions. I'm here to present the content. If you want to get in touch with me, you can. 

Please go to aka.ms forward slash whoiskarel. That will bring you to my LinkedIn page. Happy to connect with all of you and stay in touch after this training.

(4:01 - 6:25)
If you want to send me an email, you can. My email address is on the slide. What are we going to do today? Good question. 

Today, we are going to see three different modules. The first module will be about M365 Copilot Chat. I know maybe some of you have a confusion around what is now the interface that we need to use. 

What is included in our environment? What have you if you have an individual or a personal account? I will quickly touch on the differences. The differences between a M365 Copilot Chat account that you have if you have a license inside of Microsoft 365 that is using applications like Word, Excel, PowerPoint. What is the difference if you have a paid Copilot license? That is an add-on. 

That is something else. That is going to be explained in the first module. The second module is where we are going to look into writing effective prompts. 

In that module, you will see four key elements, four ingredients, if you will, to get started with writing effective prompts. The better the prompt will be, the better the result that we will get from Copilot. The last module, Working Smarter with M365 Copilot Chat, is then going to show you how you are going to share your conversation with a colleague, how you are going to use something that is called Copilot Pages, and how you are going to build agents. 

That's for the last module. We will have around one hour, one hour and a half together. That's what we need to explain all those different topics. 

The link should be in the chat. That is the official course material. Take it with you. 

After this training, you can still access this training material that we have on our Microsoft Learn platform. Give me a thumbs up if you are ready for the first module. If you want to proceed, thumbs up, high five. 

I see a lot of high fives. High five back there. Good. 

Let's get started. What have we? M365 Copilot Chat. That is the focus of today.

(6:25 - 7:25)
What is it? First of all, if we talk about M365 Copilot Chat, it is our AI assistant. What is an AI assistant? Well, it's in the word. It's still an assistant. 

You need to instruct Copilot to do exactly what you want. Ask very specifically what you want to get out of Copilot and what you want to as a result. That's very important. 

That's what we are going to learn today. On the other hand, we see something that is major important and that is grounding. We are going to ground Copilot conversations by using work and by using web-related data. 

There are two ways that we can ground Copilot. Now, what is grounding? Grounding is adding additional information to those large language models. Again, a very specific term here, large language models.

(7:26 - 7:56)
A large language model, that's what you use behind the scenes. If you use Copilot, if you use any other AI tool you use nowadays, a large language model that has been trained on a very large set of data. The models that we use for now are GPT-5, GPT-5.2. These well-known GPT models are used behind the scenes if you're going to interact with M365 Copilot chat.

(7:56 - 9:23)
Now again, a large language model has been trained on a data set. A data set that they took from the internet. Everything that was publicly available. 

Think about articles. Think about the complete internet, but also social media conversations, books. They took that complete data set and they trained a model to understand human language, natural language. 

That's what these models are very good at. Now, the large language model has a data set that is used to train the model up until a certain point in time. That's why if you're going to ask Copilot a question about today's news, it does not know about that. 

It needs to reach out to something else to fetch that information and bring back that result. That specific concept, that's what we call grounding. If you're going to do web grounding, that means that Copilot is going to fetch information from the web. 

If you're going to do work grounding, that means you are going to fetch information from your work related content. What's that? M365. The boundary that we have there is your Microsoft 365 boundary. 

I will exactly explain what that looks like. This is what we are going to do in the first module. We are going to see what is it.

(9:24 - 9:48)
First of all, M365 Copilot chat is available at no cost to your Microsoft 365 subscription. If you're using already Word, Excel, Teams, Outlook, you have one of the other Microsoft 365 licenses. With that, you have access to M365 Copilot chat.

(9:49 - 14:34)
That is the benefit of having that license. Now, you can add an additional Copilot license. That's then what we call the M365 Copilot license. 

That's in addition to your standard M365 subscription. What is included in the M365 Copilot chat? If I would introduce you now to the interface, and I will tell you how you get to this interface, this is the M365 Copilot chat interface. How do you get there? Very important. 

I'm going to show you how you get there. It's one of the URLs that you need to remember. That's m365copilot.com. M365copilot.com is the most important thing that you need to remember of today. 

This is how you get access to that M365 Copilot chat interface. Yes, you need to sign in. Why? You need to have an active M365 account to get access to that Copilot chat environment. 

Some of you may have used Copilot.Microsoft.com. This is not the focus of today. This is something else. This is what we call the Copilot individual user. 

If you are using this interface, that's the individual interface where you have some limitations. You can create X amount of podcasts, you can generate images, you can interact with Copilot, but you will find out that you have some limitations. Also there, you can add an additional license, but it's beyond the scope of this training. 

We focus on this interface. Now I told you already this M365 Copilot license is an add-on license. I will show you what the difference is, but if we look at the M365 Copilot chat experience, what's included? You are able to chat with the latest and greatest GPT models. 

Each time that you're going to go into that Copilot chat interface, you will see at the top right of your screen, there is an auto selection of the model behind the scenes in the background that we will use. You can change it to quick response, think deeper, which are two different ways that Copilot is going to provide you information, or you can select the GPT 5.2 model that is doing the same, the quick response, and think deeper capability. Automatically, the model that suits your needs based on the prompt that you're going to put in will be selected in the background, so you don't have to worry about that. 

You can also use in your Word, Excel, PowerPoint applications, you can also use Copilot chat experience in there. Let's say I want to create a new Word document. Again, I don't have any license. 

The only license that I have is an M365 license, so I can use Word, I can use Outlook, I can use Excel, and so on. What have you here is that we have this Copilot button, and by the way, you will find this Copilot option everywhere. You have it in Word, you have it in Excel, you have it inside of your Edge browser, it will show up everywhere. 

This experience, it's the same experience as what you have in the Copilot chat experience. This is very important. The prompts, the questions that you're going to put in in this prompt box here, the result is exactly the same as what you would use in this Copilot chat experience. 

What exactly is the difference then? Well, if you have a M365 Copilot license, which is that add-on license, you would be able to ask questions about work-related data, not only web, also work. If you are going to use your M365 license, you can use Copilot chat with web data, and this is already a lot. Don't get me wrong here, but the biggest difference is that you have access to work-related data if you're going to use Copilot chat, if you're going to use Agents, and if you have built other advanced management systems.

*****

(14:36 - 15:55)
So again, how do you get to M365 Copilot chat? If there is, again, one thing that I want you to remember is this link, m365copilot.com. This is the one that you need to remember, because Microsoft loves changing the back or forwarded URL in the back, so you don't have to remember that. Just remind yourself this link. By the way, if you want to follow along, please open up your m365copilot.com inside your own Edge browser, sign in with your corporate account, and just follow along with these exercises that we are going to do in the rest of this training. 

Now, how to access Copilot chat? You can access it in Teams, in Outlook. You can use it inside of Word, PowerPoint, Excel, OneNote. Every time that you're going to open the M365 applications, Copilot icon will pop up at the top right of your screen, and it can help you answering your questions. 

We even have a very interesting M365 Copilot app. It's insane what you can do with it. You can use your voice to interact with it, to put in your instructions, and just chat about anything that you want to learn something new about, so it's really cool.

(15:57 - 17:47)
Okay, this Copilot interface needs to have some explanation, right, because we have a lot of different things in here. First things first, our way to interact with Copilot is by putting in our text, our prompt in here. This is what we call the prompt box. 

This is how you are going to start your conversation. We can also add additional files and additional content, and now you need to pay attention because here, this is where we are going to show you a big difference between the licensed and the unlicensed version. So, I'm using an account. 

I signed in with an account that does not have an additional Copilot license. Although I don't have an additional Copilot license, I can start adding information. I can start adding documents in here, but if you would have the Copilot license, just for your reference, the interface will look almost the same. 

If you compare them, it will be almost the same. So, if you would look at this interface on the left side, here I have Adele Vance. Adele Vance does not have a Copilot license. 

If I'm going to use the same interface with a user, which happens to be Copilot, and Copilot has a Copilot license, then you will see this. Work and web. If you see that in your environment, that means you would have and you will have access to a M365 Copilot license, which is in Adele.

(17:47 - 19:42)
Okay, what's the benefit? Well, the benefit is that we can ask a question on different Microsoft 365 related content. What content? Well, you can ask a question about someone that you're working with. You can ask a question about a file, a meeting, an email, channels that you're in, chats that you're having, and different SharePoint sites. 

This is the benefit that you get if you have that add-on license. For today, we are not focusing on this part. I just want to mention the difference because there is a lot of confusion around what do we have, what can we do, and whatnot. 

Still, of today, if you have access to M365 Copilot chat, you can still go ahead, ask questions about any topic. For example, what's the weather going to be in Brussels for next week? We've seen that these models, they don't know anything about next week. They have been trained with data up until August 2025, somewhere around that date. 

So, by far, they know nothing about the future. Let's say nothing about the very, very present that we are in, the current one. So, what have we here? We have a reply from Copilot, and Copilot is returning a result that will give me a seven-day forecast. 

How do we see that Copilot is getting information that is accurate? Well, we need to check it ourselves. How can we do it? Well, here, you have a citation, which you can select, and that will open the specific website. In this case, it's Amazon Weather, and Amazon Weather has been used to fetch information of the weather.

(19:43 - 21:26)
If you go all the way down of your conversation, you will also find a sources button, which allows you to go and check the list of sources that have been used to get the response. This concept, that's what we call grounding. You have your prompt. 

To your prompt, additional information has been added, and that's what we send to the large language model. Very important. You can continue your conversation by adding an additional question, an additional prompt, and then you can add additional information. 

You can add a follow-up question. You can ask anything that you want. This is the conversation. 

The moment that you want to ask something new, the best thing that you can do is to start a new chat. This is how you're going to start a new conversation. By starting a new conversation, you are giving Copilot, again, a blank sheet of paper, to start with a new question. 

If you would proceed with a totally different question in your previous conversation, Copilot is going to think that you still want to know information about the weather, which does not make sense. If we want to ask something about a specific document, for example, let's say we want to create a speech, and that speech that needs to fetch information from a specific document. What we can do is we can add that document.

(21:26 - 23:05)
We can add the document in different ways. First of all, I will show you that document really quickly. It's a Word document with a lot of numbers. 

I'm not good in numbers, so that's why I use Copilot to analyze this document and to provide me back a very good summary of what of what is inside of this document. Then it's going to bring back a speech. Now, how do we add a document? Good question. 

You have different options. You can add work content. Hey, wait a second. 

You said that we are not allowed to use work content here in this non-licensed Copilot chat experience. Well, yes, but you can still add documents that you have, that you own, that are shared with you, and that are inside of your OneDrive for Business or your SharePoint location, whether you have access to them. You need to have access to those documents before Copilot is able to use them. 

All right, question to all of you, a really important question. If you think that Copilot can access your documents, please do the thumbs up icon. If you think that Copilot does not have access to your documents, just say the surprised icon. 

Okay, I see some hands up. I see some thumbs up, different things happening. Okay, a couple of the surprised icons there.

(23:06 - 26:02)
Okay, let me tell you what happens behind the scenes. By the way, thank you very much for letting me know what you think about it. The answer to this question was that Copilot itself does not have access to your documents. 

The way that it works is that Copilot is using your user account. So, to access this document, Copilot itself is using something that you are very familiar with, but definitely not heard about, or maybe some of you have heard about it, but Copilot is using in the back the Microsoft Graph. Okay, what is Microsoft Graph? You don't have to worry about it, but you use it all the time. 

If you're going to share a document with someone else in your organization, you are using Microsoft Graph. If you're sending a meeting invite to someone else, you are using Microsoft Graph. So, you've used it all the time, and that's also what Copilot does. 

So, again, Copilot does not have access to your documents. It uses something else for that. It's using the Microsoft Graph, and the Microsoft Graph is our enterprise security layer. 

What that means is that if the user account can access the document or the file, whatever that file is, Copilot can access it. If the user account does not have access to a document, Copilot will never have access to that document. This is how it works, and by the way, you will find additional information if you go all the way to the top right of your screen, and you select this green shield icon. 

This is what we are going to tell you. This is a link, a reference, to the enterprise data protection. Okay, my colleague Goran, he will put in a link to this enterprise data protection, because I want to take a moment here to verify with all of you that you understand how this M365 Copilot chat is working behind the scenes. 

Microsoft is committing to something. We are committing to a lot of different things, and we are bundling all of those commitments in the enterprise data protection. Okay, the enterprise data protection is a commitment that we present and that we commit to our customers that we are going to tell, first of all, if you are going to work with a M365 tenant, so in the location where your data is stored. 

Let's say you have selected Europe, you have selected the US. Well, if you have interaction with Copilot, your data stays inside of that boundary. It does not go outside of Europe or outside of the US.

(26:02 - 27:02)
This is a guarantee, even if you use Copilot. We are going to secure your data. Always, if you interact with Copilot, we are going to make sure that the interaction that you have, meaning the web browser that is connecting to the Copilot engine, your mobile phone that you use, which is connecting to Copilot, each time you use one of these clients, they have an encrypted channel. 

We call that encryption in transit. Everything is encrypted. Even if we store bits and bytes on a disk, that's encrypted. 

Imagine, it will never work and you will never succeed, but just imagine that you drive to a Microsoft data center, you steal a disk out of those data centers, and you try to read the data from the disk. It will never work because the data is encrypted at rest. This is the first guarantee that we give you.

(27:03 - 29:59)
We are going to guarantee that your data stays your data. Your data is private. Our commitment includes each and one of these privacy regulations that we need to adhere to as a company within the boundary of the European Union, but also within the boundary of whatever country that you are in. 

This is the different regulations that we are going to adhere to. Another thing is that we are going to use the same access policies, the same permission model, as what you have in your own company. If you use permissions to access folders or share documents with someone else, it's always going to adhere. 

Copilot is always adhering to those policies. If you use sensitivity labels, Copilot is going to respect those sensitivity labels, so you're not able to request a document and then share it with someone else. If you have a sensitivity label applied, that will prevent you from doing that. 

The other thing is that we are going to make sure that you cannot create harmful content by using Copilot in any way. We have filters on top of Copilot, which you are not allowed to create a bomb or something very harmful. Then the last, most important part, please pay attention. 

This is what we commit to and where we also differentiate with other AI tools. Microsoft is never, never going to use your data to train and retrain and make those foundation models better. Never. 

If you have an interaction with Copilot, if you are going to upload a file, if you're going to share confidential information, that stays within your conversation. That's never going to be used to retrain the model. This is different from other AI tools that you may have used before. 

Are we good with that? Thumbs up? Okay, cool. Good to see a lot of people are active. What else do we have here? Inside of our Copilot interface, we also have a left side, which is going to allow you to go to a new chat. 

You can go to the create option. What is the create option? Instead of creating a new chat and asking Copilot to generate an image, you can also go to the create option and ask it to generate an image, PowerPoint, Word, Excel, video file with

(This file is longer than 30 minutes. Go Unlimited at https://turboscribe.ai/ to transcribe files up to 10 hours long.)